(Pre-1960s: 8 years of grandpa Eisenhower, "I like Ike!")
1950s and early 60s were prosperous

by the end of the 60s Kennedy is dead and there is lots of anger and disillusionment with slow civil rights and the vietnam war.

- John Fitzgerald Kennedy
- Rich, political family
- WW2 Vet
- Elected 1960
- Issues - Cold War and Civil Rights Movement

Bobby Kennedy (2nd brother) would've won Dem nomination to go against Nixon (who lost in 1960) but was killed in '68 because of his support for Israel.

JFK won:
- New Frontier
- Very first televised debate
- "Get America Moving Again!"
- Image - confident, young (43), vigorous, idealistic, and handsome. (Televised Debate)
	- TV survey: Overwhelmingly "Kennedy won the debate!"
	- Radio survey: Overwhelmingly "Nixon won the debate!"
- **Missile Gap claim** ("soviets have more missiles than us")
	- Untrue, but still used to put pressure on previous VP Nixon
- War Hero
- Close election - popular 120k - Electoral 303 - 219
> Fraud? Evidence dead ppl voted in chicago

CATHOLIC - first catholic president
Ppl liked the vitality JFK and Jackie and their son brought to the whitehouse

---
Issues/Events at Home
- New Frontier
- Civil Rights Movement
- Boosted economy with Defense Spending - special forces, increased nuclear stockpiles
	- Went away from massive retaliation, Flexible Response (conventional weapons)

New Frontier: Success:
+ Space program initiated - (moon landing later)
+ Urban Renewal Bill to rebuild rundown city sections
+ Increase $1/hr min wage to $1.25/hr
Failures:
- Health care reform (doesn't pass) (until Obama)
- Money for education (unable to get Congress increase edu spending)
- Civil Rights Bill of 1963 (inspired by Birmingham) (fail)
- Tax Cuts (how did this fail)
> He didn't get much accomplished, only *started* things and moved towards embracing things.

**Why we hear him so much?**
- Pres. during 60s - decade that shaped modern America
- Image - "Camelot" (Kennedy's whitehouse)
- Prestigious family that stayed in public eye
- Great statesman in International Affairs (Cuban Missile Crisis)
- Inspirational"Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country"
- He was assassinated

1961 Bay of Pigs, Berlin Wall goes up, Peace Corps
1962 Cuban Missile Crisis

1963 November 22, Re-election visit to Dallas, Texas
Lee Harvey Oswald, disgraced sharpshooter & socialist. Schoolbook employee.